"School Readiness Variable","NICHD SECCYD",ECLS-K
"Language/ General Knowledge","1. Evidence of stronger positive prediction of the subsequent level of reading, math, and language skills in normal range than low range. 2. Evidence of positive prediction of externalizing for both low and normal groups.","1. Evidence of stronger positive prediction of subsequent levels of reading and math in low range than in normal range—only when entry skills in reading and math were also considered. 2. Evidence of positive prediction of externalizing for both low and normal groups."
Reading,"1. Evidence of stronger positive prediction of the subsequent level of reading, math, and language skills in children in the normal range than in the low range.","1. Not related when considered with all other school readiness skills, but evidence of stronger positive prediction of the level of subsequent levels of reading, math, and social skills for children in normal range than low range when school readiness variables were considered individually."
"Social Skills","1. Evidence of stronger positive prediction of the subsequent level of social skills for children in normal range than low range  but very strange conditional findings for predicting externalizing when all other school readiness variables were also considered. 2. In all analyses, it appears that children in the normal range showed greater increases in externalizing and more decline in social skills over time than did children in low range.","1. Evidence of stronger positive prediction of the subsequent level of social skills and less negative prediction of externalizing for children in normal range than low range. It appears that children in the normal range tended to show more declines in social skills but fewer increases in externalizing than did children in the low range."
"Approaches tolearning","1. Evidence of stronger prediction of the subsequent level of externalizing, social skills, and vocabulary skills in the normal range than in the low range. Also evidence of larger decline in externalizing over time in normal range than low range.","1. Evidence of stronger positive prediction of the subsequent level of math skills for children in the normal range than low range. 2. Evidence of prediction of the subsequent level of social skills and externalizing, but not of a threshold."
ExecutiveFunction,"1. Evidence of stronger prediction of the subsequent level of math and social skills in the normal range than in the low range. 2. Evidence of negative association with the subsequent level of externalizing, but no evidence of a threshold","(Not applicable)"
