IPART:  ,"This parameter controls what proportion of the  			 database will actually be run through the simulation. Entering a 1 indicates  			 that the entire database will be used. (For example, entering a 2 will instruct  			 the program to perform the simulation on every second record, and multiply each  			 persons weight by 2. Entering a 3 will instruct the program to perform the  			 simulation on every third record, and multiply each persons weight by 3, etc.).  			 This parameter is normally set equal to 1."
IWRITE:  ,"This parameter is an on/off switch for the output  			 datafile attached to unit number 10 (see Table 4).  			 Entering 0 will prevent file creation, 1 will enable it. This parameter is  			 normally set to 0."
ICASE:  ,"This parameter is used for programs that can not be  			 simulated using the available input parameters and requires ""hard-coding"" into  			 the model. Currently, cases 1 through 18 are defined in the model and should  			 not be re-used. For simulations defined using parameters only, this parameter  			 should be set to 0."
IHMTOS:  ,"This parameter was included for a special case  			 scenario that involved conversion of home equity to financial assets. Should be  			 set to 0."
SSILEV:  ,"This parameter is a multiplier that is applied to the  			 SSI level for transfer of income from nursing home residents to their spouses.  			 (For example, 1.0 means transfer income at SSI income level, while 2.0 means  			 transfer at 2.0 times the SSI income level). This parameter only applies to  			 simulations using the pre-1989 (catastrophic coverage act) scenario, and should  			 therefore be set to 1.0 when the parameter [BASE is greater than 0 (see  			 below)."
IBASE:  ,"This parameter determines how the model deals with  			 spousal impoverishment scenarios. Entering 0 will cause the model to use the  			 pre-1989 conditions for the entire simulation period. Entering a 1 will cause  			 the model to use the spousal impoverishment conditions in the 1989 Catastrophic  			 Coverage Act for years 1989 through 2020. Entering a 2 will cause the model to  			 use the Catastrophic Coverage Act for 1989, and then to use only the  			 non-repealed portions of the Act for years 1990 through 2020. All future  			 simulations should be run with this parameter set to 2."
IPDMP:  ,"This parameter is used to dump out 150 records into  			 the file attached to unit 21 (see Table 4). These records  			 are used for debugging purposes only, and therefore this parameter should be  			 set to 0 for all runs."
IMAX:  ,"This parameter sets the maximum number of input  			 records to process through the simulation. To process the entire database,  			 enter a large number (e.g. 999999). IMAX should be set to a smaller number for  			 test cases."
LVLTST:  ,"This parameter is used for model debugging. Setting it  			 to any number above 0 will cause large amount of intermediate data to be dumped  			 to files attached to unit 6 and 21. LVILTST should be set to 0."
IHAW:  ,"This parameter determines whether or not a synthetic  			 replacement population is generated for persons under the age of 25 in 1979.  			 These persons are not included in the original database, as they would not  			 reach age 65 before the end of the simulation. However, some insurance  			 scenarios may require this population to be available for premium payment.  			 Entering 0 will cause no population replacement. Entering 1 will invoke  			 population replacement and a reweighting of the database to simulation Hawaii's  			 population and demographics. Entering a 2 will invoke population replacement at  			 a national level."
IIT:  ,"This parameter determines the number of iterations of  			 the model (i.e. how many times each input record is passed through the  			 simulation). During each iteration, the input record is processed with a  			 different set of ""random"" numbers, effectively increasing the size of the  			 sample population and reducing problems with small cell sizes in some of the  			 output tables, but at the expense of increase CPU requirements for running the  			 model. A standard run uses 2 iterations on each record."
