State,"Maximum    Agea","Brief Description b"
Nevada,21,"Youth    are not officially in foster care past 18 but may sign a voluntary agreement    and then continue receiving the same care and opportunities as though they    were in foster care. They must be enrolled in an authorized school or education    program (for secondary or equivalent training) or be completing a high school    diploma or GED and making satisfactory progress. They may not run away."
"New    Jersey",21,"Youth    may remain in care if they have not graduated from high school or if they need    special treatment that cannot be provided otherwise."
"New    Mexico",18,"Beyond    18, youth can continue to receive services but are not in foster care. The    court can maintain jurisdiction to monitor their progress to age 19; however,    this is voluntary on the youth’s part."
"North    Carolina",18,"Youth    may sign a voluntary contractual agreement for residential services upon    their 18th birthday. The extended care does not involve the court. The youth must    be continuing education (high school or post-secondary) or be engaged in a    vocational training program. This service is available for youth that had been    in legal custody for some time prior to, but not necessarily on, their 18th    birthday."
Ohio,18,"Youth    may stay in care until age 19 to finish high school or for certain medical    reasons."
Oklahoma,21,"Youth    are allowed to remain in placement and receive voluntary services after age    18 if they have not completed high school or a GED. Also youth must have been    in an out-of-home placement on their 18th birthday to qualify for Medicaid    under the Chafee Option."
Oregon,21,"Youth    may remain in care if they are completing high school or a GED, or have an individualized    education plan. Exceptions are also available if reviewed and approved by the    branch manager."
"Rhode    Island",18,"All    youth in the care and custody of the Department for reasons other than juvenile    delinquency are terminated by the Family Court upon reaching the age of 18.    The Department will keep open and continue to provide services, up to age 21,    to youth identified as seriously emotionally disturbed or have a functional    developmental disability, and not yet eligible for the adult system of care.    Other former foster care youth who leave the Department on or after their    18th birthday are closed by the Department but may be eligible for Aftercare    Support Services provided through private agencies. They must apply for such    services. These services provide limited management supports, the    establishment of budget/living expenses and some assistance with such    expenses, and the establishment of a self-sufficiency plan."
"South    Carolina",21,"In keeping    with Fostering Connections, youth may stay in care if they are employed or pursuing    their education (secondary or postsecondary), are in vocational training, or are    in an activity that could lead to employment (e.g., volunteer work)."
"South    Dakota",21,"Youth    may stay in care until age 21 if they have not completed high school."
Texas,22,"Youth    may stay in foster care by signing a voluntary extended foster care    agreement. Remaining in foster care allows the youth to   • finish    high school (up to the month of their 22nd birthday) or a GED program;    • attend    college or other postsecondary educational or vocational activities;    • obtain    employment or enhance work-related skills and knowledge through employment    readiness activities; and    • if    applicable, eligibility may be established for youth incapable of performing    the activities described above due to a documented medical condition.  Under    the Return to Care program, implemented in September 2007, certain eligible    youth who aged out of care can return to care until age 21 to attend a    vocational or technical program or take a short break from college or a    vocational or technical program for at least one month but no more than four    months or until age 22 to attend high school or a GED program.   With    the passage of state legislation, beginning September 28, 2011, youth may    return from a trial independence period to start or resume extended foster    care."
Utah,21,"Youth    may remain in jurisdiction until age 21 if they are completing high school    and have plans to live in the community. The court decides who may remain in    jurisdiction."
